Update integ (#4200)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/gsheets.md

---
title: "Google Sheets (beta)"
description: "Integrate with Google Sheets to query your metrics in a spreadsheet."
tags: [Semantic Layer]
sidebar_label: "Google Sheets (beta)"
---

> 

Author: ```suggestion
:::info Beta functionality
Google Sheets integration with the dbt Semantic Layer is a [beta feature](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/product-lifecycles#dbt-cloud) and is subject to change without notification.
:::
```

---
title: "Google Sheets (beta)"
description: "Integrate with Google Sheets to query your metrics in a spreadsheet."
tags: [Semantic Layer]
sidebar_label: "Google Sheets (beta)"
---

:::info Beta functionality
Google Sheets integration with the dbt Semantic Layer is a [beta feature](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/product-lifecycles#dbt-cloud) and is subject to change without notification.
:::
The dbt Semantic Layer offers a seamless integration with Google Sheets through a custom menu. This add-on allows you to build dbt Semantic Layer queries and return data on your metrics directly within Google Sheet.

## Prerequisites

> 1. You have a Google account with access to Google Sheets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You have a Google account with access to Google Sheets.
```

> 2. You have the ability to install Google Add-ons 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can install Google add-ons.
```

> 3. You have [set up the dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You have [set up the dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl).
```

> 4. You have a dbt Cloud Environment Id and a [service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) to authenticate with from a dbt Cloud account 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. You have a dbt Cloud Environment ID and a [service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) to authenticate with from a dbt Cloud account.
```

## Installing the add-on 

1. In Google Sheets, navigate to [**Extensions -> Add-on -> Get add-ons**](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/2942256?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&oco=0#zippy=%2Cinstall-add-ons%2Cinstall-an-add-on).

> 2. Search for "dbt Semantic Layer for Sheets" and install it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Search for "dbt Semantic Layer for Sheets" and install it.
```

> 3. After installing, access it by opening the Add-On menu and finding "dbt Semantic Layer for Sheets". This will open a custom menu to the right hand side of your screen.

Reviewer: I'm not seeing these options in our Google Sheets environment. Are there specific permissions required for this that we should call out in the prerequisites? Have you seen this in action and if so, is it something you think will be easy to find? Should we include screenshots?
```suggestion
3. After installing, open the Add-On menu and select the "dbt Semantic Layer for Sheets". This will open a custom menu to the right-hand side of your screen.
```

> 4. Authenticate with the dbt Cloud Environment Id and Service Token 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Authenticate with the dbt Cloud Environment ID and Service Token.
```

5. Start querying your metrics using the **Query Builder**! 
   - For more info on the menu functions, refer to [Custom menu key functions](#custom-menu-key-functions).
   
When querying your data with Google Sheets: 

> - It returns the data to the cell you have clicked on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It returns the data to the cell you have clicked on.
```

- The custom menu operation has a timeout limit of six (6) minutes.

## Custom menu key functions

The custom menu provides the following capabilities: 

| Menu items       | Description                                           |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------|

> | Metrics       | Search and select metrics                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Metrics       | Search and select metrics.                             |
```

| Group By      | Search and select dimensions to group by. Dimensions are grouped by the entity of the semantic model they come from. |

> | Granularity   | Modify granularity of the primary time dimension      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Granularity   | Modify the granularity of the primary time dimension.      |
```

| Where         | Filter your data. This includes categorical and time filters. |

> | Order By      | Return your data ordered                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Order By      | Return your data ordered.                              |
```

> | Limit         | Set a limit for the rows of your output               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Limit         | Set a limit for the rows of your output.               |
```

## Filtering data 

To use the filter functionality, choose the dimension you want to filter by and select the operation you want to filter on. 

>    - If it's a categorical dimension, type in the dimension value you want to filter by (no quotes needed) and press enter. 

Reviewer: Is there an on screen element we can reference to execute this over "press enter", just to avoid any confusion

Author: not quite yet but i can ask for one at a later point
